---
layout: post2
title: "Week 2"
author: "James Hepworth"
categories: Review
tags: coffee, turbidity, AeroPress
---

## Paper 1
#### Coffee Turbidity
###### Panov, N., 2021. Coffee Turbidity [WWW Document]. Barista Hustle. URL https://www.baristahustle.com/white-papers/coffee-turbidity/ (accessed 1.23.21).

Turbity is the measure of the relative clarity of a liquid. For beverages such as wine, it has been shown to be related to aroma with a positive corelation, thus a similar effect being evident in coffee is hypothesised. However, this must be balanced against an increase in astringency associated with fine particles in coffee.

A set of experiments were done to investigate the effect of brew technique on AeroPress turbidity. A control test was done with two repeats using the following recipe: "15g coffee, 250 g water at 90°C, 10 times stirred at 30 sec mark, close the cap at 1 min, leave the coffee to settle before plunging, slow plunge for 45-50 sec., no full plunge"

This control method was then repeated for a set of experiments using two AeroPress filters rather than one showing a minor, but consistent reduction in turbidity. Then a set of experiments were done to test the effect of pressing the water from the grounds themselves (pressing the final remaining water through at the end of the press) on turbidity. No effect on turbidity was detected although it is commonly recommonly recommended to avoid pressing this last remaining water through the grounds in AeroPress recipes. Finally the effect of a fast press vs. a slow press was investigated. Here a noticeable increase in turbidity was observed, ranging between a 20 - 60 % increase loosely corelated to the tightness of the AeroPress filter cap. 

The paper's conclusion was that higher pressures force coffee to flow around the filter through gaps in the plastic parts, and that pressing technique coupled with assembly care are the biggest determinants of turbidity in coffee brewed with the AeroPress.

#### Reflection
<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">
Whilst I agree with the overall conclusions of this paper; that technique matters most in AeroPress preparation and usage, it was clear that the flow of causality was not followed in these experiments and I doubt the claims of the paper. It seems more likely to me that pressing the plunger harder would cause more particles to be forced through the paper filter that for a significant enough amount coffee to flow through the gaps in the plastic parts to affect turbidity to the extent that was observed. Overall this was a poorly written article which resulted in me being quite disappointed in Barista Hustle, a group which describe themsels as the "industry's leading online barista training provider."
</div>

## Article
#### 18 of the Most Influential Typefaces and the Design History Behind Them
###### Pires, S., 2021. 18 Influential Typefaces and the Design History Behind Them [WWW Document]. URL https://mymodernmet.com/influential-typefaces/ (accessed 1.25.21).

<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">
A fascinating review of many of the most recognisable typefaces in the modern world. The article details the major features of various typefaces, their origins, and what they have been used for.
</div>

#### Reflection
<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">
 "Many creatives have strong opinions on typefaces and fonts, and some have strict rules on which they use and when." Agreed. Although this clearly applies to non-creatives too. Who knew that several of the most prolific typefaces are hundreds, if not thousands, of years old?
</div>

## Book 2
#### Words of Radiance
###### Brandon Sanderson
<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">
Book two of The Stormlight Archive, Words of Radiance continues the narrative of The Way of Kings expanding the characters and introducing some additions. The story of this book offers more than its prequel but the style frustrates more. With a cliff-hanger at the end of every chapter one quickly tires of the writing in a long book split over two volumes.
</div>
