---
layout: post4
title: "Week 4"
author: "James Hepworth"
category: review
tags: [LoRa, antarctica]
---

## Paper 6
#### Oversea Radio Measurements and Channel Characterization with LoRa Technology
###### Gogendeau, Pierre, Nour Mohammad Murad, Serge Bernard, Vincent Kerzerho, Laurent Deknyff, and Sylvain Bonhommeau. 2018. “Oversea Radio Measurements and Channel Characterization with LoRa Technology.” In 2018 IEEE Radio and Antenna Days of the Indian Ocean, RADIO 2018. Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc. https://doi.org/10.23919/RADIO.2018.8572461.


This short paper, details an experiment analysing the effect of various different LoRa parameters on the performance of oversea signals. It appears to be one of the only papers dealing with the characterisation of LoRa signals for an oversea channel. RSSI of the LoRa signal is evaluated as a function of inter-node distance and a maximal distance for the discrimination of distance at a defined accuracy is determined. The experiment uses LoRa at 868 MHz and varies coding rate, spreading factor and bandwidth to determine the optimal configuration. 

For a accuracy of ±100 m the authors determine that the maximal inter-node distance for distance discrimination based on RSSI is 1.6 km. This is limited by the slope of the logarithmic function relating RSSI to inter-node distance.

#### Reflection
<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">
A useful paper which provides a benchmark for our own oversea testing of LoRa signals. It will be interesting to investigate whether these results can be reproduced at 868 MHz and the significance of decreasing the signal frequency to 433/434 MHz on the distance discrimination limit, both in terms of distance and accuracy. The experiment has a notable limitation in that only one node was located on the ocean surface, with the other being in a fixed on-shore location. Thus, reflections and multi-pathing due to the terrestrial features near the on-shore node will certainly have influenced the results. Admittedly, this limitation suits their particular use case but it does bring into question the true validity of their results as a characterisation of an "oversea" channel.
</div>



## Paper 7
#### Measurement and Characterization of Dual-Band LoRa Communication in the Antarctic
###### Torre, Patrick Van, Johnny Gaelens, Jo Verhaevert, and Hendrik Rogier. 2018. “Measurement and Characterization of Dual-Band LoRa Communication in the Antarctic.” In IET Conference Publications. Vol. 2018. Institution of Engineering and Technology. https://doi.org/10.1049/cp.2018.0469.

<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">
This paper describes the characterisation of LoRa signals at both 434 MHz and 868 MHz for low-bandwidth communications over the terrestrial Antarctic environment. It highlights the lack of frequency regulation in that part of the world, introducing the feasibility for the use of all frequency bands without power limitations. However, it is also argued that due to the availability of components design for regulated environments, it remains easier to voluntarily submit to typical regulatory limits. In previous work, the authors achieved data communication at distances up to 28 km. In this paper the authors focus on evaluating SNR and packet loss across mobile-to-base-station links. Packet loss is determined as a function of SNR. 
</div>

For their experimental setup, no packet loss is experienced at distances up to 8 km and no packets are received beyond 28 km. At distances greater than 8 km it is shown that the average SNR at 434 MHz is 7 dB greater than at 868 MHz despite additional receiver antenna gain of 3 dB at this frequency, indicating that 434 MHz offers favourable signal propagation. For the range where packets are received it is shown that limited throughput is always achieved, and that packet loss may be as low as 3% at 28 km depending on interference factors.

#### Reflection
<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">

This paper offers one of the first characterisations of LoRa for the broader Antarctic environment, and will serve as a supplement for our own experimental results once we have achieved ice-buoy deployment. The paper confirms 433/434 MHz signals as the preferred frequency for long-rage communications in the environment and offers promising prospects for maintaining data throughput despite packet loss.
</div>
