---
layout: post1
title: "Week 1"
author: "James Hepworth"
categories: Review
tags: engineering education, sea-ice, embedded systems, distributed topology, fantasy, sanderson
---

## Paper 1
#### A Curriculum Framework for Flexible Engineering Degrees in South Africa
###### Grayson, D., Collier-Reed, B., Pearce, H., Shay, S., 2014. A curriculum framework for flexible engineering degrees in South Africa, in: In Enhancement and Innovation in Higher Education Conference. pp. 343–352.


South Africa produces too few engineers relative to its population (1:3166). This hinders the achievement development and economic goals. A contributing factor is the low throughput rates of engineering students with only approximately 25% of students completing their degrees in the recommended time of four years and only 55% in six years. These figures are worse for black, African students at only 16% graduating in four years and 41% in six. This highlights both the "developmental and social justice" urgency to improve engineering degree throughput.

An output of a 2011 ECSA commissioned study aiming to investigate means to increase these numbers, was a recommendation that curricula should be flexible enough to meet the diverse student intake. This paper servers to highlight two exemplars for how this might be achieved in mechanical engineering.

In conjunction with a significant change to view a five-year plan as 'mainstream' and a four-year plan as 'accelerated', five broad curriculum design principles were highlighted: 
1. The *pool* of engineers in a country needs to have certain, specific skills, not the individual engineer.
2. Core subjects must be distinguished from optional subjects.
3. Choice must be allowed in optional subjects.
4. Total workload accross courses and cognitive demands must be limitted.
5. Student development takes place over years, not months. Therefore, support should be provided accross this period.

The exemplars where developed using these guiding principles along with several mechanical engineering specific constraints resulting in curricula which are "flexible yet coherent" in the view of the authors. 

#### Reflection
<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">
  In general, I agree with their assessment and believe it to be a viable option for Mechanical Engineering at the University of Cape Town (UCT). However, few of the suggestions made seem to have been enacted in the Department of Mechanical Engineering at UCT in the seven years since the paper's publication. As two of the authors are employed in teaching roles in the Department (one as HOD) I am uncertain as to why this has not gained traction.
</div>

## Paper 2
#### An Open Source, Versatile, Affordable Waves in Ice Instrument for Remote Sensing in the Polar Regions
###### Rabault, J., Sutherland, G., Gundersen, O., Jensen, A., 2019. An Open Source, Versatile, Affordable Waves in Ice Instrument for Remote Sensing in the Polar Regions.

<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">
  This paper describes the technical design of a new instrument used for measuring physical process such as waves in sea ice: the Wave in Ice Instrument. Developed by a team at the University of Oslo, the design makes use of off-the-shelf components such as Arduinos and Raspberry Pis (RPi) due to their affordability, availability and ease of use.
</div>

The instrument employs a distributed topology with the RPi allowing for in-situ processing of collected data and the subsequent generation of compressed data spectra onboard the instrument itself. Communications of these spectra are facilitated over the Iridium satellite link using an Iridium modem. Fundametally, these devices comprise of two of the four main modules of the device. The others being the data logger; an Arduino board collecting data from a GPS module and an IMU storing the data on a SD card; and a Power Control module.

Code for the data logger is written in C++, and for the RPi is in Python. Only compressed wave spectra are sent to reduce data costs on Iridium and allow longer term deployment at reasonable cost.

The paper details specific algorithms used for wave spectra calculation and lists the recorded and transmitted measurands. Testing of the system was conducted in the Arctic both on land and at sea and an analysis of the spectra data compared to raw data recorded by a data logger was used to verify and qaulify the performance of the instrument.  

#### Reflection
<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">
  The success of an instrument such as this bodes well for the future of in-situ observation of weather and climate parameters using off-the-shelf components: Verifying their ability to survive the harsh conditions and produce robust data at a lower price-point than OEMs can produce may lead to an increase in quantity of measurement nodes faciliting the provision of increased and improved data from which study of the environment can be made.
</div>

## Book 1
#### The Way of Kings
###### Brandon Sanderson
<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">
  Brandon Sanderson continues to impress as a World Builder. His writing style at times leaves something to be desired, but this somewhat atoned by the systems, peoples, and worlds he creates. 
</div>
As the first book of The Stormlight Archive, The Way of Kings should satisfy the itch of many High Fantasy readers and excite as an entry point to a vast world and complex story. From Kaladin the soldier-slave to Shallan and Jasnah the scholars, the characters are diverse and interesting. Each has a unique story, as different from another as are the peoples of Roshar. Complete with stories of war and friendship, politics and love, gods and magic, Sanderson captures the interest of his readers and rewards them with a journey of epic proportions.