---
layout: post1
title: "Week 6"
author: "James Hepworth"
category: review
tags: [southern ocean, oceanography, cyclones]
---

## Paper 8
#### Contrasting Roles of Southern Ocean Polar Cyclones in Driving Extreme Atmospheric Anomalies over Antarctic Sea Ice
###### de Jong, Ehlke., Vichi, Marcello., Messori, Gabriele. - Prepulication

This paper investigates the effect that Southern Ocean cyclones have on temperature and atmosphere-related anomalous events over Antarctic sea-ice across an ~40 year timescale. This is investigated for storms both over the seaward edge of the marginal ice zone and over solid ice. The paper was written in response to a previous paper by Vichi which detailed the in-situ, observed effects of a cyclone in the Antarctic marginal ice zone and proposed a causal relationship between cyclones and temperature and atmosphere0related anomalous events. This paper, through the analysis of available satellite data for the region, however, highlights that when viewed through a macro, long time-scale lens, a causal relationship between these systems and event cannot, in fact, be proven for all cyclones and anomalous events. Therefore, the case-study presented by Vichi must be viewed as just that; a case-study rather than an archetype.

#### Reflection
<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">
This paper highlights the importance of not drawing a conclusion from a 'single' data point. Events or observations which cannot be verified through repetition, should not be used to develop rules and axioms.
</div>
