---
layout: post3
title: "Week 3"
author: "James Hepworth"
category: review
tags: [engineering-education, deficit-thinking]
---

## Paper 4
#### Some Thoughts Related to Our Curriculum Development Process
###### Collier-Reed, Brandon. “Some Thoughts Related to Our Curriculum Development Process,” 2015.

This paper reviews the ongoing curriculum development of the Department of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Cape Town. In a preceding seminar, was established that the *syllabus* of a course is different to the *curriculum* of a course in that the syllabus refers to the course content, whilst the curriculum refers to everything that surrounds the content which enables a student to achieve success in that course.

Primary to developing a cohesive programme is that the differening knowledge and teaching streams first determine the overall outcomes to be achieved by a graduate before course specific outcomes are determined which facilitate the achievement of the overall outcomes. As a Department, Mechanical Engineering at UCT aims to provide a broad degree which allows students entry to various different workplace contexts. In order to achieve this goal, several ideas are proposed to govern curriculum development, the most import of which are summarised here:

1. **Assessment** - The final exam should not contribute more than 70% of the students' final mark and 50% of all assessments are required to undergo external moderation. Courses should contain a single class test and all assessment must be related to assign performance against specific course-level outcomes. Assessments should be governed by the following axiom, "If it is not possible to say which outcome an assessment is targeted at then either there is a course-level outcome missing, or it is an inappropriate assessment."

2. **Course Evaluation** - Courses should be evaluated both by students and by the lecturer on completion of the course in order to facilitate contiuous improvement of the course offering, year-on-year.

3. **Content Mapping** - Course content should be well-defined in relation to course outcomes. It should be evident, both vertically and horizontally, that course offerings work together in parallel and in sequence to achieve course-level, and then graduate-level outcomes. 

4. **Golden Threads** - Sustainable Engineering and Communication should be highlighted in all courses.

5. **Team Teaching** - Using all members of a stream to teach into all courses will highlight the role of teamwork in engineering.

6. **Industrial and Laboratory Participation** - These will help students root their knowledge in the real work.

#### Reflection
<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">
An interesting internal report which suggests many useful approaches to improving the degree offering of the Department. As with <a href="https://readings.opusmeum.dev/review/2021/01/17/week-1.html">Paper 1</a>, this article lead me to wonder why much of this has not been implemented in the Department? Perhaps I am simply not aware of this work but it is not evident to me as a staff member who has spent significant time on curriculum development.
</div>

In particular, I view the Content Mapping excercises to be of value, these will help to ensure that we have a relevant and coherent offering producing high-quality engineers, whilst the Team Teaching concept has value beyond highlighting the role of teamwork. This scheme would also allow lecturers to teach specific content within courses on which they are experts, thus improving the offering to students and optimising the use of lecturers' time across courses. 

## Paper 5
#### Towards a Clearer Understanding of Student Disadvantage in Higher Education: Problematising Deficit Thinking
###### Smit, Renee. “Towards a Clearer Understanding of Student Disadvantage in Higher Education: Problematising Deficit Thinking.” Higher Education Research & Development 31, no. 3 (June 1, 2012): 369–80. https://doi.org/10.1080/07294360.2011.634383.



<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">
This paper investigates student disadvantage in higher education with particular respect to the South African context. Massification of tertiary education has seen vastly increased numbers of students enrolling for tertiary qualifications, yet many of the demogrpahic breakdowsn of the past still remain. Of the 20-24 year old population in 2007, 60% of the white South Africans were enrolled in higher education, whilst only 12% of the black population had done likewise. Thus, addressing student disadvantage is necessary to challenge both social equity and social development trends.
</div>

The *deficit thinking* model has traditionally been used to attempt to understand the difficulty faced by 'disadvantaged' students, rather framing students in terms of what they lack, than in terms of what they offer. Interventions have, therefore, been aimed at how to equip these students with what they need to have in order to effectively assimilate to the culture of higher education institutions, rather than aiming to ask how the institution might challenge its own culture and practice to serve students better whilst maintaining the standards and throughput of their programmes.

Several problems with deficit thinking are highlighted in the paper. These include how stereotypes are strengthened leading to further stigmatism of the disenfranchised; alienation of those from disadvantaged backgrounds; absoluton of the blame of lecturers in terms of teaching and learning interactions with these students.

The paper then moves to discuss more appropriate ways of interacting with educational disadvantage. These involve a change of perspective on the part of the university from bring a place serving the priveleged to a place for the service of all. The typology of the 'traditional' student must be removed in order to prevent universities from preserving the "stratification of society". Interventions for the disadvantaged ought to move from the realm of special provision into the domain of mainstream academic teaching. Success of a university should be viewed in more than just quality and throughput, and should involve the assessment of equity outcomes. Programmes and academics should aim to foster the internal "will to learn" in students rather than to provide external motivators for performance, valuing the human-being more than the data-point of a successful graduate that they represent.

#### Reflection
<div style = "text-align: justify;
  text-indent: 0em;
  text-justify: inter-word;">
This paper calls us to something far beyond maintaining the status-quo. It is an admirable challenge to the university-elite to engage with the root of the perceived problems and be willing to change in order to serve students better.
</div>

In particular I agree with the need to value students as human-beings facing their own set of circumstances and challenges. We need to move away from a rigid structure demanding exacting performance from students to rather foster their internal desire for growth as more important than immediate success. In the long term I view this as far more beneficial for the individual and for society at large. 

I am proud to be part of a university which is home to people like Renee Smit and Brandon Collier-Reed who, through high-quality research and innovation, are individuals who have given themselves to challenging the existing structures and seeing the needs of students and society better met.